---
published: true
layout: default-theme-wet-boew-en
title: Design decision 11 - Resize text testing methodology
description: Defining an acceptable testing methodology technique for the success criteria 1.4.4 about resizing text
modified: 2020-09-11
---

## Summary

* **Author:** @namjohn920
* **Expert:** @duboisp, @bsouster
* **Status:** Presented
* **Last updated:** 2020-09-11
* **History:**
	* (2020-09-11) Added references and minor edits
	* (2020-02-14) Review by @bsouster editorial edit and added content reflow
	* (2020-02-04) Review by @duboisp and added support rational note
	* (2020-01-29) Initial draft

## Issue

There is some ambiguity regarding to what method should be used for resizing text in regard of WCAG 2.0/2.1 Success Criteria 1.4.4.

## Background

- According to WCAG guideline 1.4.4 - Resize Text, text can be resized up to 200% without losing its content or functionality.
- There is an overlap between 1.4.4 – Resize Text, and 1.4.10 – Reflow which requires support of browser zoom to 400% without loss of content. Satisfying 1.4.10 – Reflow automatically satisfies 1.4.4 – Resize Text.
- There are two methods of resizing text commonly available into web browsers.
	- Zoom: resizing every contents of the page.
	- Text resize: resizing text only leaving other contents such as image unchanged.

## Support rational

As February 2020 and as defined by the [design decision #2 - Browser supported](2.html) here a quick view of zoom feature supported by those browser.

* Internet Explorer 11: Zoom and provide a text resize specifically for those text-size: Smallest, Smaller, Medium, Larger, Largest
* Firefox: Zoom and text resize in percentage available via the top application menu upon selecting the text-only zoom option which by-pass the other zoom
* Edge: Zoom and don't seem to support text resize
* Chrome: Zoom and text resize available via the "font size" configuration in the Appearance settings with the following value: Very small, Small, Medium (Recommended), Large, Very large
* Safari: Zoom and don't seem to support text resize
* Chrome (mobile): Zoom and text resize available in the accessibility section in the setting, the text size can be adjusted up to 200%.

### Special note regarding WET 4.0.x

* Internet Explorer 11: Text resize doesn't work since the initial version of WET 4
* Firefox and Chrome: Text resize has caused some issue where some accents and descenders was getting cut when text was oversize to 200%. In particular this was perceptible for value displayed in an HTML select box. Related to [wet-boew issue #7884](https://github.com/wet-boew/wet-boew/issues/7884)

## Recommendation

The best practice is to develop digital content that passes Success Criteria 1.4.4 - Resize text by using both methods of resizing text (400% zoom, 200% text resize).

When only one testing methodology is used, it must be browser window set to 1280px wide and zoom up to 400%, simultaneously passing Success Criteria 1.4.4 – Resize Text (AA) and 1.4.10 – Reflow (AA).

## Reference

* [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.4: Resize text](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/resize-text.html)
* [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.10: Reflow](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/reflow.html)
* [1.4.4 Resize Text - Misunderstandings Update - Interpretation #883](https://github.com/w3c/wcag21/issues/883)
* [2020-38 - Resize text testing methodology with formal example](research/2020-38-a11y-zoom.html)