---
published: true
layout: default-theme-wet-boew-en
title: Design decision 5 - Decision on repository migration
description: Defining a strategy for how to migrate the content about WET 4 to another repository
languages: false
hide_breadcrumb: false
date_modified: 2020-01-13
---

## Summary

* **Expert:** @LiamLowndes, @duboisp
* **Status:** Approved
* **Last updated:** 2018-11-15
* **History:**
	* (2018-11-15) Published
	* (2018-10-18) Approved at the WET roadmap meeting
	* (2018-09-27) Presented at the WET roadmap meeting
	* (2018-09-19) Initial draft

## Rational

This is to ensure WET 4 code and discussion are not inter-mixed with WET 5. WET 4 (component based) and WET 5 (Logical Development Design based) are different in how discussion and reported issues are analyzed and going to be resolved.  Thus they have their own repositories to voice issues and discussions. The expected result is the main repository would be reserved for WET 5 (or latest) code while WET 4 (or previous) has its own repository.

This strategy is about:

* Keeping WET 4 code in a dedicated repo named “wet-boew-maintenance”
* Moving/copying over all WET 4 issue and discussion to the dedicated repo.
* Having a fresh foundation for WET 5

## Migration steps

1. Tag issues with a WET 4 label
2. Create a dedicated repo, like: wet-boew/wb-maintenance (for WET-BOEW in maintenance
mode only)
3. Move the WET 4 code base into the master branch of that extended support repo.
4. Clean the wet-boew repo to include only WET 5 code. Move WET 4 related branch into the
extended support repo.
5. Use a bot to move all WET 4 issues into that new repo. (https://github-issue-
mover.appspot.com Or http://www.iquandreas.com/github-issues-import Or use our own via the
GitHub API)
	* It will copy each issue (including all comments)
	* It will create a link between issues
	* It will close the original issue
6. After WET 4 end of support
	* Close all WET 4 issues with a message saying “WET 4 is no longer supported,
please follow these instructions (link) to migrate to WET 5”
	* Move the code base into wet-boew-legacy project
