---
published: true
layout: default-theme-wet-boew-en
filename_fr: 6-fr
title: Design decision 6 - Versionning
description: Explain the versionning strategy for wet-boew project
modified: 2019-09-22
---

## Summary

* **Expert:** @duboisp
* **Status:** Approved
* **Type:** Refine current practice
* **Last updated:** 2019-09-22
* **History:**
	* (2019-09-22) Published
	* (2019-09-20) Approved at the WET roadmap meeting
	* (2019-08-21) Trivial editorial edits
	* (2019-05-16) Presented at the WET roadmap meetings
	* (2019-02-11) Initial draft and applied

## Issue

The wet-boew version was always sequential but it was not always consistant with the type of changes introduced. That force implementer to do more extensive testing or/and analysing when updating their current WET-BOEW/GCWeb version.

Also, wet-boew product and gcweb theme don't necessary evolve and get improvement the same way. Using the same version number for both product didn't represented the reality of those product.

## History
The wet-boew project and gcweb project hasn't followed the semantic versioning. That means every release is potentially a minor release because it's add functionality and even some release contains breaking changes.

Themes and the wet-boew share the same verioning number no matter the changes introduced.

## Proposal

This design decision propose to follow [semantic versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/) for all wet-boew centrally managed projects (including GCWeb/Canada.ca theme) and a variant for the wet-boew core project.

## Semantic Versioning Summary

Given a version number **Major.Minor.Patch**, increment the:

1. **Major** version number when you make incompatible API changes;
2. **Minor** version number when you add a feature in a backwards-compatible manner; and
3. **Patch** version number when you make backwards compatible bug fixes.

Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the **Major.Minor.Patch** format.

See the full version of the [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](https://semver.org/) document for more detailed information.

### Semantic Versioning WET-BOEW product variant

This definition applies only to the product created from the sources: [https://github.com/wet-boew/wet-boew](https://github.com/wet-boew/wet-boew) and it is probably compatible with all other versions before v4.0.29.1 published under the identifier « 4.x »

This variant includes the addition of a numerical suffix in order to identify the product’s architectural version.

For example, version 4.0.29.1

* **Architecture**: 4
* **Major**: 0
* **Minor**: 29
* **Patch**: 1

#### Variant details of wet-boew versioning

Given version number Architecture.Major.Minor.Patch, increment the:

1. **Architecture** version number when the internal API, such as plug-in interlacing, or the internal and external product integration methodology have non-backwards-compatible changes;
2. **Major** version number when you make backwards-compatible feature changes;
3. **Minor** version number when you add backwards-compatible features; and
4. **Patch** version number when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes.

Additional labels for pre-release and build metadata are available as extensions to the Architecture.Major.Minor.Patch format.

##### Semantic Versioning Specification Change (applicable only to WET-BOEW.Core)

In addition to the changes below, the rest of the specifications remains untouched.

Changes to provision 2 include the following:

> 2. A normal version number **Must** be on **A.X.Y.Z** format, where **A**, **X**, **Y**, and **Z** are non-negative integers, and **Must Not** contain leading zeroes. **A** is the architectural version, **X** is the major version, **Y** is the minor version, and **Z** is the patch version. Each element **Must** increase numerically. For instance: 2.1.9.0 -> 2.1.10.0 -> 2.1.11.0 -> 3.0.0.1.

Provision 8-1 must be added after provision 8, and it should read as follows:

> 8-1. The architectural version identifier A (A.X.Y.Z | A > 0) **Must** be incremented if non-backwards-compatible changes are introduced for plug-in interlacing or for internal and external product integration methodology. This **May** include at the same time major, minor, and patch changes. Major, minor, and patch version identifiers **Must** be set to zero when the architectural version identifier is incremented.

## Public API

Each plug-in’s public API is defined by the [design decision #3](3.html).

The WET-BOEW and GCWeb public API is defined as follows:

* Structural page labels (Template);
* Styles limited to CSS category names or HTML structure styles with their respective effect, regardless of their implementation;
* Plug-in interlacing defined by the list of functions and essential variables used by one or more plug-ins;
* The total plug-ins with their respective versions from which each plug-in is defined by:
	* JavaScript functions;
	* Configuration structure, as well as each property’s type of data;
	* HTML labels representing templates for user interface design;
	* Key information for plug-ins;
	* Plug-in appearance and formatting (CSS); and
	* Internationalised terms used (character strings) by the plug-in.
* Their templates, components, and variants are defined by:
	* HTML labelling;
	* Structure information;
	* Components that in turn may include the same elements of a template;
	* Appearance and formatting (CSS); and
	* Internationalised terms used (character chains).

## Ressource

* [Semantic versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/)

