---
published: true
layout: default-theme-wet-boew-en
title: Notes #2018-2 - WET API/Blueprint
description: Suggestion of defining the WET API and blueprint in order apply semantic versionning eventually
modified: 2018-04-18
---

# Design note #2018-2 - WET API/Blueprint


## Summary

* **Expert:** @duboisp
* **Status:** Draft
* **Type:** Refine current interpretation
* **Date:** 2018-04-18

## Issue

There is no or vague guidance on how versioning should be applied. There is no information defining what element from WET core or from a WET feature should be evaluated in order know the changes introduced by a PR (pull request) would have a major, minor, trivial impact on the feature and the project.

Current versioning convention are not very helpful other than being sequential. Some trivial/patch release introduce some non-documented breaking change.


## Propose solution

Use [semantic versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/) for WET. That require us to define what we consider to be the API of the product.

A WET feature has multiple facet where doing the version only against the API would not be sufficient. The blueprint of the WET feature should be integral part of the API in order to set it's version. Major version and minor version on individual WET feature would have an impact on the version of the WET release. However, both should be managed separately.

In term of terminology, a WET feature blueprint would be interpreted the same as the API as defined in the semantic versioning 2.0.

Non-documented blueprint are considered out of scope of the design pattern supported by WET. A working example aren't implicitly part of the blueprint of a WET feature.

## WET feature blueprint

The following are the blueprint component for a WET feature:
* **Function:** Description of the plugin interaction such as events, executing action, callback.
* **Configuration:** Description of how to set behaviour and/or output. Usually done through sending parameter, like in JSON format so the data in his JSON form are part of the blueprint. It's variation are also part of the blueprint, like CSS class use as configuration, the use of custom data-* attribute,...
* **User interface:** Define the HTML markup and semantic required by enhanced interface and basic interface. It includes variation of enhanced interface when supported configuration is applied on the feature.
* **Data source:** It represent an abstraction layer of the contextualized information gathered from the basic HTML interface. Also for each external data source, it define the structure of the information required for the WET feature. 
* **View and style:** Presentation layer of the information on how it is visually structured and styled through an combination of user interface and configuration. Often the presentation would be presented as wireframe accompanied with a few design notes.
* **i18n string:** List of translation string used by the feature.

For one WET feature, multiple variant may exist for one blueprint component.

## Next step

* Present this note at the WET roadmap meeting
* Design a documentation skeleton for the blueprint.
* Use this interpretation for the design of WET 5 and to resolve issue relatively to Basic HTML mode.
